---
layout: page
title: Final Project
permalink: /final-project/
---

## Project Planning Statement

### Impact on Social Media Presence Before, During, and After a Major Event

How do people react before, during, and after a major event? Do they spread more misinformation about natural disasters on social media just after witnessing one themselves? Or are they reluctant to post negative Tweets about the new government after a successful government coup? These are some significant questions that my project is planning to address. It is imperative we get to the end of these questions, for we can learn a lot about the impact of major events on the human sentiment and behavior that can be utilized by a lot of fields for research.

During a major event like a natural disaster, there is really no psychological method of testing how people are feeling, how they're adapting to the new environment, etc. other than deriving what people might be feeling via the thoughts they share, the actions they do, and most importantly, the posts they share on social media. This is the age of technology and social media, and people are posting every aspect of their life on it. We can take advantage of this fact to perform sentiment analysis to decipher their thoughts and feelings during a major event.

And this is exactly what I am proposing for my Digital Humanities project. For the basis of this research, the data will be derived from publicly posted Tweets by users. Twitter has become an important communication channel in times of emergency.
Smartphones are so common that anyone can instantly report an emergency they are witnessing in real-time. There are other platforms that I could have potentially used for this project, but owing to the lack of good APIs and simply the lack of concrete ways to collect enough data, Twitter was the first and the best choice. People also use Twitter a lot for expressing their daily activities, like what they are doing, how they're feeling about something, or about events/hot topics/"trends" that are going on using hashtags. My project will be focusing on the latter part of people's activity on Twitter, albeit it can theoretically be applied to all of the aforementioned aspects.

For the project itself, the theme is to perform sentiment analysis on Tweets before, during, and after a major event using Natural Language Processing and Named Entity Recognition. This is to examine how people's opinions and emotions change over the course of an event by analyzing Tweets made during that event. The primary text used for sentiment analysis is the collection of Tweets before, during, and after the major event. The event is dynamic; there will be a simple web app with a text field that will allow the user to input the date range for the event they want to analyze, and the keywords related to that event. The web app will then use the Twitter API on the backend to query for the Tweets of interest -- the Tweets that were Tweeted on the provided date range and containing the given keywords. These Tweets will be collected and serialized to JSON to form the data set for that particular event. As mentioned earlier, an advantage of this project is that the keywords can be anything and any major event can be analyzed. For instance, to analyze what people were feeling via their social media posts during the 2020 US Presidential elections, we can give the application a date range of 09/01/2020 - 01/01/2021 with the keywords ['Donald Trump', 'Trump', 'Election', 'Biden', 'Joe Biden', '2020Elections', 'PresidentialElection']. This would then result to a collection of Tweets related to these keywords posted in the given date range being used as the data set, and this data set would be further analyzed for sentiments before, during, and after the election using Natural Language Processing Python libraries.

The main goal is to look at and analyse the polarity of the Tweet (i.e. is the Tweet negative? is it positive?), and construct visualizations to depict the change in connotation of the Tweets as time passes. Moreover, the analysis phase of the project can be made very powerful and can use a lot of different NLP techniques that we have learned in the class so far, including TF-IDF (Term Frequency–Inverse Document Frequency) to reflect the importance of words in the collected dataset, and so on and so forth.

Moreover, data visualization is an important analysis tool which will be an integral part of this project. Most importantly, it will be interesting to analyze and compare the polarity of people's Tweets as time passes with a major event happening. For example, we can observe the change in people's sentiments via the Tweets they make during a natural disaster -- the 2015 Nepal earthquake. A comparative analysis can be done on the psychological effects of such disasters by comparing the average sentiment of people 2 months before the earthquake vs 2 months after the earthquake. The possibilities are endless. Moreover, as a simple word-analysis tool, a word cloud can be generated for a particular event to observe what the most commonly discussed theme was in people's Twitter timeline.

To conclude, this method of answering the question my project proposes to address is an effective use of Python NLP libraries and is very powerful owing to the flexibility of the ability to change date ranges and keywords to adapt to any "major event". By employing these advanced NLP strategies, this project will be helpful in analyzing the sentiments of Tweets made by people and how they might change as time passes.

### Sources and references:
- Goyal, G. (2022, August 25). Twitter sentiment analysis: Implement twitter sentiment analysis model. Analytics Vidhya. Retrieved November 4, 2022, from https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/06/twitter-sentiment-analysis-a-nlp-use-case-for-beginners/ 
- Named entity recognition. GeeksforGeeks. (2022, October 18). Retrieved November 4, 2022, from https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/named-entity-recognition/ 
- Natural language processing with disaster tweets. Kaggle. (n.d.). Retrieved November 4, 2022, from https://www.kaggle.com/c/nlp-getting-started 
- Tweet NLP. Twitter Natural Language Processing -- Noah's ARK. (n.d.). Retrieved November 4, 2022, from http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~ark/TweetNLP/ 