---
layout: post
title: "Reading Response #1"
date: 2022-10-01
categories: jekyll update
---
## Humanities and The Digial Humanities

In this blog post, I will be reflecting on the two readings that introduced me to the world of "Humanities" and "Digital Humanities". In "The Humanities" by William B. Drees, the author tries to define the humanities and its scope by analyzing how we as humans try to study humans. This self-reference of humans studying humans is a strong and salient idea that backs the author's views on how humanities should be defined. However, I find it quite fascinating that the conclusion the author draws at the end about what humanities is heavily depends on what you think humanities encapsulates - it is objective and that is how humanities differentiates itself from the natural sciences. Moreover, unlike natural sciences where everything is so well-defined, humanities itself is an amalgamation of several human-related sciences, including the language, culture, tradition, linguistics, history, and so on, which prevents humanities from having a concrete definition of its own.

Expanding on the concept of general humanities, in "Introduction to the Digital Humanities", authors Eileen Gardiner and Ronald G. Musto try narrowing down the scope to focus on _digital_ humanities and what it encapsulates. They also address the fact how the humanities have evolved over time and one no longer has to _"sift through manuscripts and copy them by hand"_. They go on to discuss about the advantages that digital humanities has over traditional methods employed by a humanist, and how feasible research has become in this field. Furthermore, a salient idea that this article tries to articulate is how technology-dependent humanities and its study has become, especially with the rapid development of science and technology. Also, the authors argue how difficult it is to settle on a definition of digital humanities similar, which is the point that Drees made in the previous article too. Now that all research involving humanities has technology at its core, I am left wondering if everything that is done in the field of humanities can now be classified as digital humanities? If so, can we find reasons as to _not_ use digital humanities and instead prefer the methods used in traditional humanities to perform research instead?

Likewise, I am also curious regarding the difference between the findings of digital humanities and traditional humanities methods. If employing digital methods to do research is principally better, when should we move on to the "golden age" and leave the traditional methods behind?