---
layout: post
title:  "Week 2"
date:   "2022-09-23"
categories: jekyll update
---

## Chapter 1 - *What are the humanities? What are the digital humanities?* ##

After a few weeks into the course, I began to reflect on what does humanity really mean in the context of the current digital age. From reading Drees.William's "The 
Humanities, I learned a lot about what defines humanities in the modern context. Some of the quotes that I found to be very intereesting and informative are : 
"Humanities are academic disciplines in which humans seek understanding of human self-understandings and self-expressions, and of the ways in which people thereby
construct and experience the world they live in." The author gives his own definition of humanities as an academic deiscipline and a topic of research, which the entire rticle is based upon. Another sentence that caught my attention immediately was " As expressions of human inventiveness, as different from all others, they are unique.
In their “singularity,” human expressions – in literature, art, and otherwise – are meaningful, and, hence, relevant for research." This short yet succinct quote captures the relevance of humanities to everyone who's studying the subject of it. Because of the singularity property of humnaities, or the expression of human inventiveness, the work is worth researching and learning more about. Lastly, the author also draws a parralel comparison between the subject of humanities to natural sciences through the quote below: "Thus, though there is a major similarity with the natural sciences, in seeking to envisage the diversity of life forms and of cultural practices, there is a difference in the nature of the object. The objects of the humanities are themselves also subjects; they are humans using language to communicate, engaging in practices meaningful to them.". As someone who comes from a background of science and engineering, the comparison that the author used helped a lot in explaining how does humanities research differ and alike that of science.
