---
layout: post
title:  "Technology and the humanities"
date:   "2022-12-02"
categories: jekyll update
---


This reading reflection is centered on the topic of technology and humanities after reading the piece of article published on Atlantic, named “As We May Think”. Vannevar Bush proposes a revolutionary new way of organizing and accessing knowledge. He introduces the concept of the memex, an early form of hypertext linking that would enable users to create their own connected web of information. Bush outlines how this system could be used to store and rapidly recall large amounts of information. He also suggests that this new system could be used to solve some of the world's most pressing problems, such as global poverty, disease, and war. Bush envisions a future in which knowledge is ever-expanding, interconnected, and of benefit to all mankind. In my opinion, the article is no douby is a prophetic essay that attempts, and successfully does, to predict potential future developments in technology.The idea of a "memex," which could be some types of device resembling a desk with several buttons, levers, and screens. This device would be able to store, recall, and analyze information quickly and easily. Bush imagines a world in which the memex is connected to a network of other memex machines, forming a global "collective memory" that could be accessed by anyone. He also talks about how this technology could be used to aid scientific research, by allowing scientists to quickly search through vast amounts of data. He also suggests that the memex could be used to create a global encyclopedia of knowledge, allowing people to quickly and easily find information. I believe that Bush's article is a vision of a future where information and knowledge are easier to access and manipulate, and where people are more connected through technology. And for certain that we as humanity are already on path of what Bush envisions in the future. 
