---
layout: post
title:  "Distant Reading"
date:   "2022-10-17"
categories: jekyll update
---

## Reading Reflection 2 - *Distant Reading* ##

Distant reading has recently emerged as a computer-assisted scholarly approach to reading literary texts. Developed by Franco Moretti, the concept of distant reading utilizes and heavily relies on big data analytics for literature comprehension. The Wikipedia page only provides trivial information about Franco and his "Conjectures on World Literature" work that first brought up the concept of "not reading books" is the best way to deal with the overwhelmingness of existing and past literature pieces. I did a little bit more research into his work and background to try to understand the rationale and logic behind his methodology of distant reading. Prior to theorizing the concept of Distant Reading, I learned that he founded the Stanford Literary Lab, which adopts untraditional methods to tackle literary problems by scientific means: hypothesis-testing, computational modeling, quantitative analysis and so on and so forth. However, even with the assist of technology and efficient analytical models, Franco wanted a more radical appraoch, which eventually became what he called "DIstant Reading". The concept states that to understand literature, one should not study particular texts or any specific pieces of work, rather, one should aggregate and analyze the so called "big data" of the literature work. To use an analogy, even if one person can successfully and effectively read through the entire collections of Victorian fictions, there are still over 60,000 other novels published in 19th-century England. The point is that no matter how much one person can read, there is never enough time for human individuals to fully comprehend a genre of a literature due to the lack of time and processing speed. Thus, the Distant Reading method identifies new literature pieces by analyzing existing ones through the big data set. It is interesting to see that computers distinguish different genres of literatures differently than humans. For instance, humans tend to adopt a more qualitative approach, for example when the story has castles and brooding atomospheres, readers tend of notice that the literature is of a Gothic style. However, computers use a strictly quantitative appraoch, analyzing the frequency of words or other distinguishable patterns found commonly among the same genre of work. According to Franco, "possess distinctive features at every possible scale of analysis.", and that is exciting to discover and where the power of idstant reading could be applied and shined. 
